:book: Add Make install workaround (#3543)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/faq.md

```
However, note that this problem is fixed and will not occur if you deploy the project in high versions (maybe >= 1.22).

> ## Kubebuilder  Make install fails with this error: Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## I am facing the error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes`. How to solve it? Why the error is faced?
```

> Kubernetes api has a size limit and if the CRD is too big with so many long descriptions it will cause the failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes API has a size limit. Then, when the apply is used the API will add the annotation last-applied-configuration with all previous configuration which is exceeding this amount. [More info](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/declarative-config/#how-to-create-objects)

Therefore, you have a few options to workround this scenario such as:

- You can use the option `maxDescLen=0` to remove the description of your CRDs. Following an example:

```shell

 .PHONY: manifests 
 manifests: controller-gen ## Generate WebhookConfiguration, ClusterRole and CustomResourceDefinition objects. 
     # Note that the option maxDescLen=0 was added in the default scaffold in order to sort out the issue 
     # Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes. By using kubectl apply to create / update resources an annotation 
     # is created by K8s API to store the latest version of the resource ( kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration). 
     # However, it has a size limit and if the CRD is too big with so many long descriptions as this one it will cause the failure. 
 	$(CONTROLLER_GEN) rbac:roleName=manager-role crd:maxDescLen=0 webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases 
```

- You can review the design of your APIs and see if it has not more specs than should be by hurting single responsibility principle for example. So that you might to re-design them. 

Note that the ideal solution would be to use client-side apply. However, it still not supported by Controller-gen and consequently by kubebuilder. For further information see: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-tools/pull/536

```

Can you shape the text, but it would be something like ^ 

Also, we need to add a note in the tutorial to explain the problem and that the example of the tutorial is using maxDescLen=0. It can be in a follow up PR and you can link this faq section there.

Therefore, you have a few options to workround this scenario such as:

- You can use the option `maxDescLen=0` to remove the description of your CRDs. Following an example:

```shell

 .PHONY: manifests 
 manifests: controller-gen ## Generate WebhookConfiguration, ClusterRole and CustomResourceDefinition objects. 
     # Note that the option maxDescLen=0 was added in the default scaffold in order to sort out the issue 
     # Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes. By using kubectl apply to create / update resources an annotation 
     # is created by K8s API to store the latest version of the resource ( kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration). 
     # However, it has a size limit and if the CRD is too big with so many long descriptions as this one it will cause the failure. 
 	$(CONTROLLER_GEN) rbac:roleName=manager-role crd:maxDescLen=0 webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases 

> Instead of Kubectl create command use Kubectl apply and it will work because kubectl create will send the request at once and it will fail while kubect apply send the request in small chunks so the desc len will be divided. 

Reviewer: It is not kubectl that generate the manifests.
By using the  maxDescLen=0 controller gen (see: https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/controller-gen.html) will generate the CRD without description which will consequently reduce its size which might sort out the issue

Could you please change this line and also ensure that we link the doc above?

Author: I understood the maxdesclen=0 in wrong way. Now I got it. So I changed what maxdesclen do. Also **_It is not kubectl that generate the manifests._** I am unable to understand the context of this line. Can you please explain

Add maxDescLen=0  and it will ensure that the crd description size is utmost and hence it will go through it. 

> 

Reviewer: Note that in my comment, I added one more workaround option to ensure that the Single Responsibility principle is not violated. Can you please check that?

Also, we need to mention the ideal solution here, which would be to work with server-side, but it is not yet supported. In this case, would be either helpful ensure that we link the PR for controller-gen (please see my comment with the suggestions which has the PR as the issue)

Author: I have added the link of controller-tools pr. But I am unsure about **_Single Responsibility principle_** In this [comment](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/3460#issuecomment-1635365658) You have talked about DDD principle. and in whole pr I didnt find anything about Single Responsibility principle. Can you please explain?

```
However, note that this problem is fixed and will not occur if you deploy the project in high versions (maybe >= 1.22).

> ## The error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` is faced when I run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests. How to solve it? Why this error is faced?

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
## The error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` is faced when I run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests. How to solve it? Why does this error occur?
```

> The Kubernetes API has a size limit. Then, when the apply is used the API will add the annotation last-applied-configuration with all previous configuration which is exceeding this amount. [More info][k8s-obj-creation]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When attempting to run make install to apply the CRD manifests, the error Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. When the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the last-applied-configuration which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation]).
```

> Therefore, you have a few options to workround this scenario such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this scenario, you might consider the following approaches or workarounds:
```

> - You can use the option `maxDescLen=0` to remove the description of your CRDs. Following an example:

Reviewer: The link is: https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/controller-gen.html

> When attempting to run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests, the error Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. Note that the `make install` target will apply the CRD manifest under `config/crd` using `kubectl apply -f -`. Therefore, when the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the `last-applied-configuration` which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation]) and this error will be faced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When attempting to run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests, the error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. Note that the `make install` target will apply the CRD manifest under `config/crd` using `kubectl apply -f -`. Therefore, when the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the `last-applied-configuration` which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation]) and this error will be faced.
```

Reviewer: @Sajiyah-Salat here just a nit. When we add commands, errors and etc we put it under `` to proper render it.

> In ideal approach might use client-side apply might seem like the perfect solution since with the entire object configuration doesn't have to be stored as an annotation (last-applied-configuration) on the server. However, it's worth noting that as of now, it isn't supported by controller-gen or kubebuilder. For more on this, refer to: [Controller-tool-discussion][controller-tool-pr].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ideal approach is to use server-side apply, since the entire object configuration doesn't have to be stored as an annotation (last-applied-configuration) on the server. However, it's worth noting that as of now, it isn't supported by controller-gen or kubebuilder. For more on this, refer to: [Controller-tool-discussion][controller-tool-pr].
```
@camilamacedo86 @Sajiyah-Salat this should be server-side apply, right?

SSA uses a declarative approach than using the client side apply and storing previous configuration in `last-applied-configuration` field: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/#field-management. Please correct me if I'm wrong.

Author: Yes, @camilamacedo86 talked about the server side in the last [comment](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/3543#discussion_r1300241107). here, I think there is a typo mistake.

```shell

 .PHONY: manifests 
 manifests: controller-gen ## Generate WebhookConfiguration, ClusterRole and CustomResourceDefinition objects. 
     # Note that the option maxDescLen=0 was added in the default scaffold in order to sort out the issue 
     # Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes. By using kubectl apply to create / update resources an annotation 
     # is created by K8s API to store the latest version of the resource ( kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration). 
     # However, it has a size limit and if the CRD is too big with so many long descriptions as this one it will cause the failure. 
 	$(CONTROLLER_GEN) rbac:roleName=manager-role crd:maxDescLen=0 webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

Missing close the shell script. See that broke the doc.
You can always validate your changes by looking at the preview:
<img width="703" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-24 at 19 31 36" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/assets/7708031/c2af4939-5e53-47b5-8a51-564e9472d343">

Just click in the details to see the whole doc rendered within the changes.
In this case, if you just either use github to check the doc via markdown you will see that is broke:
<img width="420" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-24 at 19 32 45" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/assets/7708031/b4b7f921-1bda-4d3e-95fb-6419fd1a2123">
<img width="868" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-24 at 19 32 53" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/assets/7708031/396cb321-d445-4b7d-a31c-f73fc4bda5ca">

Reviewer: Missing close the shell script. See that broke the doc.

You can always validate your changes by looking at the preview:

<img width="703" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-24 at 19 31 36" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/assets/7708031/c2af4939-5e53-47b5-8a51-564e9472d343">

Just click in the details to see the whole doc rendered within the changes.
In this case, if you just either use github to check the doc via markdown you will see that is broke:

<img width="420" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-24 at 19 32 45" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/assets/7708031/b4b7f921-1bda-4d3e-95fb-6419fd1a2123">

<img width="868" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-24 at 19 32 53" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/assets/7708031/396cb321-d445-4b7d-a31c-f73fc4bda5ca">

> You can review the design of your APIs and see if it has not more specs than should be by hurting single responsibility principle for example. So that you might to re-design them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**By reviewing and refactoring the API/CRD Design

Examine your APIs to ensure they're designed with a clear focus and aren't overly complex. Overcomplicated designs can violate principles like the [Single Responsibility][single-responsability] Principle, making the CRD overly bulky.
```

Reviewer: The link here for: [single-responsability] is: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-responsibility_principle

Reviewer: @Sajiyah-Salat ^ missing this part

> Your CRDs are generated using [controller-gen][controller-gen]. By using the option `maxDescLen=0` to remove the description, you may reduce the size, potentially resolving the issue. To do it you can update the Makefile as the following example and then, call the target `make manifest` to regenerate your CRDs without description, see:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your CRDs are generated using [controller-gen][controller-gen]. By using the option `maxDescLen=0` to remove the description, you may reduce the size, potentially resolving the issue. To do it you can update the `Makefile` as the following example and then, call the target `make manifest` to regenerate your CRDs without description, see:
```

> Instead of Kubectl create command use Kubectl apply and it will work because kubectl create will send the request at once and it will fail while kubect apply send the request in small chunks so the desc len will be divided. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove this one. It seems there seems to be some confusion in that statement. The primary distinction between kubectl create and kubectl apply is not in how they send data (i.e., in chunks versus all at once), but in their approach to handling resources:

- kubectl create: This is used to create a resource. It requires that the resource does not already exist. If it does, the command will fail.
- kubectl apply: This manages applications through files defining Kubernetes resources. It creates and updates resources in a cluster through the file.

However, both commands send the configuration to the Kubernetes API in a similar manner. The statement about kubectl apply breaking the data into smaller segments is not accurate as per the documentation and general understanding.

The real difference in terms of the error you're referencing might come from how kubectl apply manages the last-applied-configuration annotation, but it doesn't break the request into smaller segments.

You could suggest to use. create instead of apply, however, that means also lost data. So we should not add it here.

> By using the maxDescLen=0 [controller-gen][cont-gen] will generate the CRD without description which will consequently reduce its size which might sort out the issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Duplicated, we already added the info on top.

> Note that the ideal solution would be to use client-side apply. However, it still not supported by Controller-gen and consequently by kubebuilder. For further information see: [Controller-tool-discussion][controller-tool-pr]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's add it o top , I think will be more clear.

>  	$(CONTROLLER_GEN) rbac:roleName=manager-role crd:maxDescLen=0 webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 	$(CONTROLLER_GEN) rbac:roleName=manager-role crd:maxDescLen=0 webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases 
``` 	
```

@Sajiyah-Salat it is missing close the code.

```
However, note that this problem is fixed and will not occur if you deploy the project in high versions (maybe >= 1.22).

## The error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` is faced when I run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests. How to solve it? Why this error is faced?

> When attempting to run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests, the error Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. Note that the `make install` target will apply the CRD manifest under `config/crd` using `kubectl apply -f -`. Therefore, when the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the `last-applied-configuration` which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation]) and this error will be faced.

Author: ```suggestion
When attempting to run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests, the error Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. Note that the `make install` target will apply the CRD manifest under `config/crd` using `kubectl apply -f`. Therefore, when the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the `last-applied-configuration` which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation]) and this error will be faced.
```

In ideal approach might use client-side apply might seem like the perfect solution since with the entire object configuration doesn't have to be stored as an annotation (last-applied-configuration) on the server. However, it's worth noting that as of now, it isn't supported by controller-gen or kubebuilder. For more on this, refer to: [Controller-tool-discussion][controller-tool-pr].

Therefore, you have a few options to workround this scenario such as:

> **By removing the descriptions from CRDs**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**By removing the descriptions from CRDs:**
```

Your CRDs are generated using [controller-gen][controller-gen]. By using the option `maxDescLen=0` to remove the description, you may reduce the size, potentially resolving the issue. To do it you can update the Makefile as the following example and then, call the target `make manifest` to regenerate your CRDs without description, see:

```shell

 .PHONY: manifests 
 manifests: controller-gen ## Generate WebhookConfiguration, ClusterRole and CustomResourceDefinition objects. 
     # Note that the option maxDescLen=0 was added in the default scaffold in order to sort out the issue 
     # Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes. By using kubectl apply to create / update resources an annotation 
     # is created by K8s API to store the latest version of the resource ( kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration). 
     # However, it has a size limit and if the CRD is too big with so many long descriptions as this one it will cause the failure. 
 	$(CONTROLLER_GEN) rbac:roleName=manager-role crd:maxDescLen=0 webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases 
```

> You can review the design of your APIs and see if it has not more specs than should be by hurting single responsibility principle for example. So that you might to re-design them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**By re-design your APIs:**

You can review the design of your APIs and see if it has not more specs than should be by hurting single responsibility principle for example. So that you might to re-design them.
```

```
However, note that this problem is fixed and will not occur if you deploy the project in high versions (maybe >= 1.22).

## The error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` is faced when I run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests. How to solve it? Why does this error occur?

> When attempting to run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests, the error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. Note that the `make install` target will apply the CRD manifest under `config/crd` using `kubectl apply -f -`. Therefore, when the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the `last-applied-configuration` which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation]) and this error will be faced.

Author: ```suggestion
When attempting to run `make install` to apply the CRD manifests, the error `Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes` may be encountered. This error arises due to a size limit enforced by the Kubernetes API. Note that the `make install` target will apply the CRD manifest under `config/crd` using `kubectl apply -f -`. Therefore, when the apply command is used, the API annotates the object with the `last-applied-configuration` which contains the entire previous configuration. If this configuration is too large, it will exceed the allowed byte size. ([More info][k8s-obj-creation])
```

Author: This sentence doesnt fit here. Should we just remove it.
